#What is Blockchain??
Blockchain is a technology for a new generation of transactional applications that establishes trust, accountability and transparency, while streamlining business processes. The blockchain network was first introduced by bitcoin, but its practical uses extend far beyond cryptocurrency exchanges. With blockchain, IBM is reimagining the most fundamental business exchanges, and opening the door to a new world of digital interactions.

A block chain is a data structure that stores time-ordered data in an ever-growing list, like an accounting ledger. The block chain data structure is maintained using a distributed, peer-to-peer network of computers with no central “master”. Each block in the chain contains transactions which represent a change of state in the database; the transfer of funds from one account to another, for example. Transactions are verified by multiple nodes in the network and are eventually stored in blocks in the block chain. Each block contains a signed hash of the contents of the preceding block, making it impossible for a block’s contents to be tampered with. It is possible to traverse the entire block chain to ensure that the hash of one block is stored in the block that follows it.

Block chains contain a series of transfers of value from one address to another. An address uniquely identifies an account (or a user) in the system and is in fact a public key whose paired private key belongs only to the user who created the account. Value cannot be transferred from an account without a digital signature that requires the source account’s private key.

As well as securing the list of transactions cryptographically, block chains also provide a distributed consensus of the state of the database. It ensures that value transfers happen once or not at all, giving the application developer the peace of mind that, once stored, their data is both immutable and trusted. The block chain network effectively picks a random node to generate the next block in the chain by giving that privilege to the node that solves a mathematical task that takes a lot of computing power. The node that finds a solution to the problem nominates the next block in the chain and publishes it, where it is verified by others in the network. The winning node is rewarded for this “proof of work” with freshly minted crypto-currency and transaction fees collected from the transactions’ creators. This process is known as “mining” and serves the purpose of:

minting new currency – the rate of generation of the currency is strictly governed
rewarding the “miners” for verifying transactions and establishing consensus in the network


#Key terms
The following terms are instrumental in gaining a holistic understanding of blockchain concepts:

Transactor: A network participant connected to the blockchain network through a node, who submits transactions from a client using an SDK or API.

Transaction: A request by a transactor to execute a function on the blockchain network. The transaction types are deploy, invoke, and query, which are implemented through the chaincode functions set forth in the fabric's API contract.

Ledger: A sequence of cryptographically-linked blocks, containing transactions and the current world state. In addition to data from previous transactions, the ledger also contains the data for currently-running chaincode applications.

World state: Key-value database used by chaincodes to store their state when executed by a transaction.

Chaincode: Embedded logic that encodes the rules for specific types of network transactions. Developers write chaincode applications and deploy them to the network. End users then invoke chaincode through a client-side application that interfaces with a network peer, or node. Chaincode runs network transactions, which if validated, are appended to the shared ledger and modify world state.

Validating peer: A network node that runs the consensus protocol for the network to validate transactions and maintain the ledger. Validated transactions are appended to the ledger, in blocks. If a transaction fails consensus, it is purged from the block and therefore, not written to the ledger. A validating peer (VP) has authority to deploy, invoke and query chaincode.

Non-validating peer: A network node that functions as a proxy, connecting transactors to validating peers. A non-validating peer (NVP) forwards invocation requests to its connected validating peer (VP). It also hosts the event stream server and the REST service.

Consensus: A protocol that maintains the order of blockchain network transactions (deploy and invoke). Validating nodes work collectively to approve transactions by implementing the consensus protocol. Consensus ensures that a quorum of nodes agree on the order of transactions on the shared ledger. By resolving any discrepancies in this order, consensus ensures that all nodes operate on an identical blockchain ledger. See the consensus topic for more information and test cases.

Permissioned network: A blockchain network where each node is required to maintain a member identity on the network, and each node has access to only the transactions that its permissions allow.

#Key concepts
Overview: Blockchain is a specific type of network, over which members track and exchange digitized assets. A shared ledger contains the single record of all network transactions, and is replicated across all network members. Chaincode applications contain self-executing contracts and client-side applications which interface with the network through an SDK or API.

Two or more transacting parties, as members of a blockchain network, implicitly agree on the terms of the smart contract that governs the transaction (e.g. upon receipt of asset "a", asset "b" is due). Once deployed to the blockchain, functions in the contract can be invoked (i.e. a transaction can be triggered). Ensuing invocation(s) are ordered by a leading node and broadcast to validating peers for consensus. Following validation, transactions are executed and recorded to the ledger in blocks. The ledger is then distributed to all network nodes through replication. Once appended to the ledger, transactions can never be altered or deleted; the only way to undo or change the effects of an approved transaction is to submit a subsequent transaction.

Network: A blockchain network is characterized as follows:

A distributed, decentralized peer-to-peer network, with nodes that represent network participants, such as banks, government agencies, manufacturers and securities firms.
A group of peers that validate transactions through a consensus protocol before committing them to a shared ledger.
Shared ledger: The shared ledger is the single source of truth, or the entire history of validated transactions, on a blockchain network. Any discrepancies in the shared ledger across nodes are resolved through consensus. The ledger has the following attributes:

It records all validated transactions on the network.
It is shared across all network participants.
It is replicated, so that each participant has their own copy.
It is permissioned, so that participants can only view their own transactions.